Hey,
>> no. Anybody else has come in? So, it's
uh time to bring to order. And over
inland Wetlands and Water Forces
Commission meeting for July 5th, 2025.
Uh
really the first three
agenda be uh don't even really need to
be addressed. Why don't we just skip
down to approval of the minutes?
Make a motion to approve the minutes
from June 2nd.
>> I'll second.
>> Five. Again, it's nothing. Five, six,
seven.
>> Oh yeah.
>> All those in favor? I
Okay, I got the five six
nothing there. Um, so jump right over to
Joe with he's got quite a huge items
here.
>> Yeah, a few few permits. The first one
was um
92 Bunker Hill Road. They're building
the guy wants to build a house. It's
like it's a property. It's at the top of
the hill, Bunker Hill Road. Um, it's an
old hay field and I guess there's like
part of the hay field as wetland. Like
it's always been a hay field, but it's
just wet there. So, um, that's why I had
to get a permit. But basically, they're
putting the septic system in, but it's
kind of wet there. It's not wetlands,
but it's wet there. So, they're putting
a curtain drain in like first to see if
it can be a suitable site for the septic
system.
>> So, they got to do that. I got to wait
like 6 months or something and test it
again, see if it dried the area out
enough and then um and then if so then
they can build the house there. But not
>> wasn't a dry spot.
>> I guess I don't know. I didn't know
>> really partial to that wet spot.
>> Well, but why if it's wet? Why isn't it
wet? Like
>> Well, it doesn't have it's not wet
enough to change the soil
characteristics. Like it has to be like
wet enough to
create
wet enough where it was concerned.
>> Yeah. So there's like a section on the
lower end that was delineated and
everything and then the septic's up
further but it's it's still kind of wet
anyway there. So it just doesn't like
soil that doesn't drain well
>> cuz I mean it's at the top of the hill.
It wouldn't look it doesn't really look
like a place that would be a well
>> an issue. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
most probably poor draining soil. Uh the
other one was a pre-built shed permit.
It was replacing a slightly smaller shed
and going in the same spot. He was
looking getting rid of that shed and
putting a new shed in place. That one
was pretty straightforward.
Um and then two notices of violation.
One was a 280 Route 6. The guy
um used to be somebody else's. He bought
the property. He was clearing land. and
he's going to build a house eventually
and he just had the whole block cleared
looting in the upland review area. Um
luckily got my letter before he got like
right up to the brook but so there's
like a little buffer there. He's going
to plant some trees and then um
try and remediate but there's no reason
to clear that much. So have them restore
a section of that to provide a low
buffer to the intermittent stream. over
there. Um,
so there's that one. And then the next
one was um down here on Kan Road. That
was just last week. They were uh doing a
paved driveway um with an upland review
area is a big big section of driveway.
Um
and the driveway guys are doing they're
kind of known for trying to sneak in and
sneak out without getting any permits.
So,
um, we had Jay Tuttle. He was the call
before you dig. He would get the
notifications and they even forward them
to us so we could get on them to get a
permit because they needed one, you
know, like a driveway apron permit and
they need one from me in this case. Um,
so I'm going to have to I just sent the
letter um late last week, so I haven't
heard back yet. But
>> so how how would that go? I mean,
>> I don't know. It was It's weird cuz I
was looking at it like cuz the the
driveway there was an addition to the
house that was put on like 10 years ago
and the doors it's like the I don't know
if you have a road like this. This is
the house. The old garage was here. They
put a new garage here and the wetlands
are over here but the doors to the
garage go out this way.
>> Okay.
>> And that's what So for years they were
just driving on dirt and then the old
paved driveway was over here. So when I
saw it, I was like, "Oh, why are they
paving there? It's the side of the
house." Like, "Why didn't you pave the
side of your house?" But then I saw the
garage there.
>> So it's like they needed to. So it's
like, "Well, I don't know what, you
know, at first I was like, maybe they
can remove a portion of it, but it looks
like there's enough there to back a car
out." So I don't I don't know what uh
I'm going to have to talk to them.
>> Yeah. That's
>> might just be have to be how it is.
Well, how sensitive is that area? Like
is it like uh it's good water or
>> Yeah, I mean there's a a wooded buffer
where the stream goes. The stream
crosses like it's close to the property
up here where there's an existing paved
driveway and then it kind of goes this
way.
>> Yeah.
>> So, this area is within the 100 foot,
but it's not it's not like right up
against it. There's a forest in buffer
and they just like pave right up to the
edge of the woods and it kind of slopes
down and eventually goes in the stream.
But that's it's like
>> there's enough of a buffer there.
>> But he he needs a permit but if he
probably will come in,
you know, come into our commission and
>> Well, it's not actual. It's still up on
review. It's all up on review area. So
shouldn't need to come before the
commission unless the guys want him to.
>> Oh.
Oh, okay. You should you should have at
least notified you.
>> Yeah. It's the kind of thing that you
want to discuss before they do it. You
know, like how far what are you going to
do?
>> It doesn't seem like when I'm looking at
it doesn't seem like there's much they
can do about it. I mean, what are you
going to do? I mean, if he's going to
have a pave
>> Yeah.
>> garage.
>> Yeah, that makes it makes more sense
than pavements. Like some people just
pave a big section because they don't
want to mow or they want to park 10 cars
there or something. So, you know, that's
where you could have a little more pull
like why, you know, you shouldn't make
it as big as you're making it. But,
>> right. Yeah.
>> I got different.
>> So, yes. So, I think those are
Yeah. This month's approval and
violation. Now, was it
a previous meeting where you got a
permit for one Sunset Lane where they're
putting that deck on? Uh I I just see
the ZBA public hearing notice coming up.
And I look at this house that's really
close to the lake and then they're
putting this big deck out there and they
uh is that have they already come to
you?
>> Not yet. They um I was kind of waiting
to see what would happen with the ZBA.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> Because I didn't want to make them, you
know, pay for the permit if the ZBA was
going to deny it. And I'm not really I'm
still trying to figure out what the best
course of action for that is cuz it is
really close.
>> Then again, it's permeable. If they do
like a gravel base and it's just a
wooden deck, it's, you know, it's not
like I I wouldn't want a patio that
close to the lake for sure.
>> Yeah.
>> But
>> well, see, they got the wood already,
you know, all the wood is sitting out
there ready to go. Okay.
>> I think uh this is this is one of these
after the fact kind of things.
>> Yeah.
>> But so I'm interested how that plays out
with the ZBA, too.
>> Yeah. cuz it is pretty close.
>> It is. It's real close. And I think it's
I don't know. I looked at the aerial
photos and I think it might be a little
closer than it even says.
>> The denial letter says proposed back is
6 feet from the Andover length high
watermark.
>> I think it might even be closer than
six. Yeah. Where the spec is 50.
>> Oh yeah. So shall not be within 50 ft of
the established water. Oh wow.
It really
that's a new standard.
Is that the one that's furthest down me
by the dam?
>> No, that's right up by center.
>> Yeah. Okay.
Was that house the orange house for a
while there?
>> Painted it red now.
That big house, right? If you're going
down lakeside, you're like looking right
at the house or does that sunset keep go
over to the left too? Sunset goes over
to well depend which way you're walking
as I'm coming towards town hall that's
off to the right
sunset that you know goes from lakeside
down to the lake
>> just that short stretch right it's not
long
>> it's pretty hard to hide moving giant
shed right next to the lake in that
Yep.
I know. I still It still makes me think
of how, you know, so many people don't
either they don't know that there's
permits required or they don't care.
>> They don't care.
>> You know, a lot of people don't really
know. I think
>> I think it's all I got. I mean,
>> I mean, when I first moved into town, I
was just in my 20s and I didn't know
very much. And I
>> when I joined,
>> I remember cutting trees down and it's
like, I wonder if I should get a permit
for that.
>> It would have never even crossed my
mind. I got on the commission.
>> Yeah. When I joined Windham's wetland
commission, I had no idea what an upland
review area was or anything. It's like
being
>> Right. Right. Intermittent streams, too.
That's another thing I a lot of people I
don't think the intermittent stream even
registers you know as far as they're
concerned that's just drainage you
>> and it could be it kind of depends like
>> sort of definition
and
all right
other business the review of the bylaws
That was a good read.
>> Yeah, I was really That was impressive.
That's so much easier to read than the
other one. I read the other one. It was
It was And then I read yours after you
said it was a much better read.
>> So I make a motion to approve by law as
amended. Second.
>> All those in favor?
>> I
election of officers.
Well, I didn't see Brad's hand go up.
>> Sorry.
I say I
>> Brad, did you vote for the minutes, too?
I don't know if you had your hand up
virtually.
>> I meant to
so Yes.
>> Can we do officers without being in
here?
>> I think so. I don't see why not.
>> Yeah,
Megan. Um,
yeah.
>> And we could approve the bylaws because
we talked about them last month
>> and then and need everybody here to vote
on
>> right. So, we're good on that.
>> And she said in her text that she wasn't
coming and she was fine with the bylaws
and stuff.
>> Her fine would be in the chair.
She was asking if you were still
planning on being an alternate, but
>> I Yeah, I I would still be on an
alternate. Um
I realize I need to get some training,
but uh
I would still stay on as an alternate
year. Is that remember last month when
we were talking?
>> Yeah, it was different, right? For some
reason the alternates are three years
>> or three years then the regular seat is
two years.
>> Um with regular commissioners two
>> two
>> and then chairman I think what we have
is chair and vice chair one year.
>> Oh okay.
>> Yeah that's where the bylaws are every
year.
>> I don't know it doesn't say vice chair
but it does say the chair but I'm going
to assume both. I have a meeting to say.
>> Can you keep going as a a chair or vice
chair?
>> Yeah, you just have an election every
year.
>> Keep doing it. And well, you did this.
>> Yeah.
>> When I was looking, I had I didn't see
anything in the bylaws or the town
charter
for switching between a regular member
and an alternate. I think as far as I
know the commissions do it in the
meeting.
>> But did you uh did you send the you the
slate of all of us willing to reup to
the board of selectman? So
>> I did not I think Megan sent something
to the town clerk and
>> but that's probably just for her.
>> Yeah, right.
>> Yeah. So, we need something. I thought
uh I thought we needed to send uh you
know for all the people that are going
to stay on the commission that they to
stay on and just send it to the board of
selectman and I would have I would put
Megan in as a regular and Bill is an
alder on that and everybody will be
happy
>> and you chair and her vice chair
>> yeah probably the election of officers
and then just send them one
>> I guess all the updates so
>> okay
>> I assume
>> do and then you send the notice.
>> We want the notice to
>> even actually
my thing ran out at the 30 of the June.
I noticed
>> Well, I'm just saying if we're electing
Brad, I mean, you you want us to just go
through this election and then have them
just send something to the
>> Not Brad.
I'm sorry. Sorry. I'm sorry.
>> You knew what I meant.
>> I know what you meant.
>> Is that the way I mean? I'm asking you.
I don't know.
>> It'll work.
>> Yeah.
>> Depends on the chairman if you know like
if you wanted I would send it if George
or
>> Okay.
He'll take care of it because I know
he's in and out of here anyway. So most
likely will run into him. You don't even
have to go out of your way, right?
>> What's that?
>> The select. Oh, wait a minute. That's
the select.
Is that
>> Does this all have to go to the select
me? Is that what you're
>> Yeah, it would go to them.
>> It shouldn't be just
>> I think then they'll add it to the
agenda. There's
>> because there's other commissions that
have to get that were
>> Yeah. So, we could just send electronic
like an email kind of thing, right?
>> Yeah. It gets sent in at the town clerk
and then she'll probably pass it to the
board like I don't know that's what the
way it works in
the board of selectmen they appoint the
members of the commission so we have to
send them who the the people are they
say okay looks good and that makes it
official
>> yeah okay
>> but so are we going
elect
have a vote on who we want to be chair.
I think we should I make a motion that
we elect Duncan Feith as chairman of the
in the wetlands.
>> I'll second it.
>> All in favor?
>> I
>> All right. The same for Megan.
>> I'll make a motion that we select Megan
as vice chair.
I'll second it. Choose to commit.
>> All those in favor?
>> All in favor? I
>> I
>> Okay. So, we'll
>> And then do we have to And so the rest
of us like do we have to do anything for
him because he's switching? You and I
are staying.
>> Yep.
>> You're switching. But I mean, do we have
to go through this?
>> I think you should put a motion in for
the record to point to
move Megan into a regular new to the
alternate if that's what you want.
>> Yeah, I think we we probably should
because I mean technically
>> it won't hurt. It can't.
>> Right. So technically,
>> right, we might not. If we didn't want
say Jed to be a commissioner anymore, we
wouldn't vote him on.
>> Right.
>> Oh, so you want to vote on each person?
>> Is that the way it works? I mean, if you
want to be J. I mean, uh,
>> no, I don't think we
>> No, it's just for switching, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah, it's just switching.
>> Okay. All right, let's do that. U,
>> but it's up to you.
>> You're good.
>> Yeah, I agree. Let's just do that. Okay.
I'll make a motion that we uh
make Megan a regular member and we make
Bill an alternate member, essentially
switching rules for those two people.
I second.
>> All those in favor in
>> favor I
>> I
those are all done.
>> Check.
>> So you we don't have to the rest of
>> you have no choice.
>> You have I the planning is only here. We
need
>> you kick me out.
>> No. That's what I mean. What if there
what if there was a commissioner that
had bad attendance or something, you
know, or uh just had a bad attitude or
whatever or wasn't
>> Well, I don't think you could do
anything about a bad attitude.
>> Okay.
>> If Duncan really didn't like me, would
he kick me off?
>> I don't think so.
>> No, I I didn't know either.
>> Because you would kind of want,
>> you know, a variety of people. You don't
want to just
>> He could go to the board of select then
and they would appoint you.
>> Yeah.
>> They might have the power to remove some
board.
>> I think they do.
>> Yeah. I do.
>> All right.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. That makes sense.
>> You better have some food. Yeah.
>> Next regular meeting.
>> I'm not
>> Monday, August 4th, 2025 is our region.
And I wanted to let you know that I'm
not going to be in town.
>> Wow.
>> Fine.
>> Another one alternative.
>> Go to the all dead. Don't come.
>> Yep. The only alternate. And I got five
regular members in an alternate.
>> Make a motion we journ.
>> Second. All in favor?
>> I
the new record.
>> Good job.
>> That's good.
>> Should spend a lot of time there
watching people jogging by Facebook
and I gota go to a meeting. I got to
leave.